Hello and welcome back to the course on computer vision in today's tutorial we're talking about the
integral image.
So what is this image that is so important in computer vision in the way all the Jones algorithm.
Well previously we stopped off here where we introduced the horror like features and we found out how
they were calculated so briefly to recap we have a certain feature that is commonly found in certain
parts of the face for instance here we can see this line where it is like more white half was more black
is Representative sometimes on some certain photos in some sort in a certain lighting it can be present
in the nose here.
And then we calculated that through the actual pixel values in the image.
When we talked about threshold.
So basically we found out that in order to calculate this in value for the feature to find out if it's
present in the image or not so that the criterion for that to evaluate the criterion for us and feature
we need to make perform calculations and we need to calculate the sum of all of these values and this
rectangle and the sum of all the values in this rectangle.
Strike one from the other.
And as you can imagine this can be quite a costly exercise in terms of computations.
It take quite some time to add all these numbers up especially if you have lots of these features at
evaluating and especially if these features are quite large.
So there is a hack to doing this very quickly and this is where the integral image comes in.
So let's just imagine that we have an image with a certain number of pixels us as shown here.
And for simplicity's sake we're only going to look at the intensity of the gray scale from 0 to 1.
We're just going to do it from 0 to 10 so we'll just multiply by time just so it's easier for us to
look at this example we don't have to deal in decimal point so let's randomly fill in this image.
Doesn't really matter what kind of image we're talking about.
Any image can be represented in this type of form where we have a value for every single pixel.
And so let's say we're calculating a whore like feature and we need to in order to calculate evaluate
that feature on this image we need to calculate the sum of all of the intensities in this specific valks
that we've outlined.
So what we normally do is we would just take 10 plus four plus nine plus eight percent plus four plus
one plus nine point nine percent plus we'll add them up and we would get some.
As we discussed this can become potentially expensive if you're looking at large features like this
one and there a three by four that's 12 values that you have to add if you if they can grow if they're
larger in size then is it going to be even more values that you need.
So basically the the larger the feature The larger the image the more you have to do some calculations
the more expensive that calculation is in terms of time and as we know in computer vision if we especially
for real time computer vision then time is very valuable we cannot.
We want to minimize the amount of time we spend calculating and plus you need to not only evaluate one
feature there can be lots and lots of features that you want to evaluate in one image.
So again another reason to minimize the time spent on this.
So what are going to do now is we are going to put this image the side here.
Are we going to forget about the box for now.
We'll get back to it.
I now we're going to move to constructing the integral image So here we've got the image on the left
and on the right.
We're going to create the integral image integral image is exactly the same size as the original image.
And all you need to do to calculate the integral image is a very interesting operation.
So for any given square in the interval and let's take the square for example the value that will reside
in that square is the sum of the values on the original image above and to the left.
So the square is here.
That means we take all of the values that are sitting here and the original image and we add them put
their sum into the integral image.
So in this case it's one plus 9 10 2 plus 8 25 plus 0 25.
And that's why we're going to put 25 again.
Now there's another one just to solidify this process was just around the square here.
So in order to calculate this square we're going to have to calculate all of the values they like to
take.
And it's not like over here which is this square and then go up and left and everything in this rectangle.
We need to add them up and put them put them into that squares.
If you add them up you'll get all 134.
And that's the value that goes into this square in integral image.
Now what we're going to do is we're going to fill in the whole integral image exactly that way so you
can just if you would like to you can pull this video and you just stick your hand value.
So for instance 201 here would be the sum of all of the values that are in this rectangle.
And so that is how you calculate the integral image and so why do why do we use integral.
Because it's a very efficient hack to the exact problem that we have with the exact challenge we have
of calculating those howre like features.
And the reason for that is because HARLICK features are actually rectangle so let's have a look at an
example here.
So back to square that we originally were rectangle there were originally identified so we wanted we
said that hypothetically we want to calculate the sum of all of the values inside this rectangle in
order to evaluate a certain horror like feature.
And so what we would do here is we would use the integral image to help us remember we said that in
this original image if if we took our original approach of just adding stuff up we would have to do
four times three 12 you'd have to add up 12 values.
Now let's see one integral image can help us do so in an integral image what we'll do is we'll take
the value that represents this bottom right corner but we'll take an integral image.
So there it is.
And so this value is actually what does it represent.
It represents the sum of all of the values in here.
So let's outline them.
There they are.
So that's the sum of all those values is 235 So write that down at the bottom 235.
Now we're going to take the value in the top right corner just above the top right corner of rectangle.
And that value that 83 is the sum of everything.
Above all rectangle above.
In this area in these first two lines.
So if we subtract this new value from our existing value from 2 3 5 then we will remove all of these
values.
So we'll take it out.
So you can see like 235 we've got this big red box that's shaded.
If we subtract eighty three we will get just this box.
So let's write that down.
Now we're going to take the value in the top left just above the top left corner of rectangle So this
value over here of course ponse to this is a space in the image or here.
And that means if we add it we will add back this rectangle.
So it might be a bit counterintuitive but we're going to add it back because that's going to help us
in the next step.
So we added back and now finally we're going to take the value at the bottom left corner over here and
we'll subtract that as well because that represents the values on all of this rectangle.
So if we subtract that and write that down as you can see what we're left with is exactly that rectangle
that we are after in the first place.
So we took that value subtract that value.
So it took that value subtract that value took the green bottom right value over here.
Thirty five to check that A-3 added 47 to 71 34.
And the result is 65 and that is exactly what we were after.
So as you can see we only needed to perform four operations in order to calculate this rectangle the
sum of the values inside this rectangle as opposed to.
So when we need to to add or subtract for values as opposed to 12 values if you're doing it by hand
if we had to calculate every single you know add them all up here.
And the beauty of this is you will always only need to look at for values regardless of the size of
the rectangle so even if your rectangle is a thousand by a thousand you will still only need to look
at four values in the integral image whereas in the original image you would have to deal with 1000
times 1000 You have to deal with a million values.
So as you can see the integral image doesn't scale it does the time it takes you to process the integral
image doesn't change proportionately and doesn't change at all regardless of the size of the feature
that you're dealing with.
And therefore it makes it very easy and once again it is only possible to use an integral image because
as you remember all of the horror like features there are actually rectangles there actually are composed
comprised of rectangles black or white rectangle so you always will need to look at rectangles as like
a circle in there if there was some odd looking shape then it wouldn't be possible to help to use the
integral image.
And so that's why the hard features of while powerful are because even though they might not be ideal
they might not ideally find the right of the exact features of an image there might be a bit rigid some
in some places because they're just rectangles at the same time they make up for that with their computational
efficiency because we're using the integral image and that's one of the major advantages of horror like
features because you might find better features like circles or some other features that might be better
classifiers overall but because hard but HARLICK features they are much easier to calculate through
the integral image therefore you can use a lot of them you can use it you can evaluate them much much
quicker and that's why they make up.
So there we go that's how the integral image works.
And that's why it's such a huge advantage for the viola Jones algorithm that's why it implies it.
And yeah I hope you enjoyed it as a tural and aliquot seeing it next time.
And until then enjoy computer vision.